h1. Zed and Ginger

<pre>
    A cat runs!
    See the cat run!
    Why does the cat run?
    ...To get to the end, of course.
</pre>

A single-player game of a cat running along a corridor in a space station just for the joy of it. Based on the classic arcade/8-/16-bit game, Metro-Cross.

Created using the Ruby and the Ray gem.

License: GPL v3
Author: Bil Bas (http://spooner.github.com) (bil dot bagpuss {at} gmail.com)

h2. How to run the game

* Windows: <pre>zed_and_ginger.exe</pre>.
* OS X: <pre>zed_and_ginger.app</pre>
* Linux: <pre>ruby bin/zed_and_ginger.rbw</pre> (see below under _compatibility_ for requirements).

h2. Compatibility

Runs in a 768x480 window.

* Windows: Native executable (.exe) available.
* OS X: Native executable (.app) available.
* Linux: Can run from Ruby source + libraries + Ruby gems 
  * Install Ruby 1.9.2
  * Install Ruby gem dependencies <pre>bundle install</pre> (may need to <pre>sudo gem install bundler</pre> beforehand).
  * <pre>ruby bin/alpha_channel.rbw</pre>


h2. Where to get a copy of the game from

* Project: http://github.com/Spooner/zed_and_ginger
* Downloads (including Windows exe): http://github.com/Spooner/zed_and_ginger/downloads
* Repository: git://github.com/Spooner/zed_and_ginger.git


h2. Tools used

* Ruby 1.9.2
* Developed using JetBrains RubyMine IDE
* Sounds created with sfxr and converted to Ogg Vorbis format with Audacity.
* Windows executable created with the Ocra gem.


h2. External assets

* Ray gem (libraries) [Included in executable versions].
* pixelated.ttf (font by Affinity and Epsilon - benepsilon {at} gmail.com) [INCLUDED]


h2. License

    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Full text of the license is provided in COPYING.txt
